multi line strings where the closing column is insignificant (#1266)
topiary/topiary: docs/book/src/reference/capture-names/indentation.md

] @append_indent_end
```

## `@multi_line_string`

> to do

Author: to do. document

] @append_indent_end
```

## `@multi_line_string`

To be used on multi line strings in languages like Nix and Nickel that ignore indentation common to all lines of the multi line string. Consider the following Nickel example.
```Nickel
m%"a
b"%
```

`@multi_line_string` could format this as follows.
```Nickel
m%"
  a
  b
"%
```

Nickel considers these 2 strings above as equal because Nickel ignores indentation common to all lines of the multi line string. Otherwise, `@multi_line_string` would not be admissible in a Nickel formatter.

> As illustrated in the example below, `@multi_line_string` requires both a `@multi_line_string.start` and a `@multi_line_string.end` directive in the same query matching the start and end delimiters of the string, for example `m%"` and `"%` in Nickel.

Reviewer: In Nickel, the string termini are matched by something like `m(%+)"` and `"\1` (e.g., `m%%%"string"%%%` is valid). Does you implementation allow for that, or is it just string match for now?

If it's just string match, that's fine -- it shouldn't be a blocker -- but it's worth documenting a future enhancement in an issue :+1:

Author: yes, [i tested it](https://github.com/topiary/topiary/blob/philipp/multi_line_ClosingColumnInsignificant/topiary-cli/tests/samples/input/nickel.ncl#L3185-L3186). `@multi_line_string.start` and `@multi_line_string.end` are captures, not predicates. the string delimiters are tracked in `Atom`s via [`EnforceIndentation`](https://github.com/topiary/topiary/pull/1266/changes#diff-c81cbc8a6e5ed8ff06a96beed38af39261458b6beb3c7e33bf32b5b840547a40R54).

just passing a string to a predicate is exactly what is not possible yet but might be useful for grammars that do not allow capturing the multi line string delimiters. for example, the nickel grammar's latest release does not allow capturing the delimiters of _single_ line strings. but then again, maybe the number of grammars not allowing capturing the multi line string delimiters is insignificant.

Reviewer: Nice :pray:

> As illustrated in the example below, you can add an optional `#multi_line_string.last_insignificant!` predicate. It indicates that a line break can be introduced before the end delimiter if, in the input, the end delimiter is on the same line as the string's last nonwhitespace line, as illustrated by `b"%` in the examples above. Nickel considers this not to change the string's value. Otherwise, `#multi_line_string.last_insignificant!` would not be admissible in a Nickel formatter. For example, Nix does consider this to change the string's value.

Author: i considered elaborating on the kind of formatting that `@multi_line_string` performs but that would require more examples below and then these references to "the example below" would not work anymore. i already find these forward references unfortunate enough as it is. ideally, i would want the reader to read the example first. but this *capture names* section of the book has this very consistent structure of having the usage example subsection at the very end of each section. is it worth breaking this structure?

> As illustrated in the example below, you can add an optional `#multi_line_string.last_insignificant!` predicate. It indicates that a line break can be introduced before the end delimiter if, in the input, the end delimiter is on the same line as the string's last nonwhitespace line, as illustrated by `b"%` in the examples above. Nickel considers this not to change the string's value. Otherwise, `#multi_line_string.last_insignificant!` would not be admissible in a Nickel formatter. For example, Nix does consider this to change the string's value.

Reviewer: Nitpick
```suggestion
As illustrated in the example below, you can add an optional `#multi_line_string.last_insignificant!` predicate. It indicates that a line break can be introduced before the end delimiter if, in the input, the end delimiter is on the same line as the string's last non-whitespace line, as illustrated by `b"%` in the examples above. Nickel considers this not to change the string's value. Otherwise, `#multi_line_string.last_insignificant!` would not be admissible in a Nickel formatter. For example, Nix does consider this to change the string's value.
```

Author: implemented in [`f5a0587`](https://github.com/topiary/topiary/pull/1266/changes/f5a0587e943c7ecace7b4f7257fdc77f654fd43d)
